and that's to study the brain which is
in Watsons excuse me in Crick's vision
was the ultimate black box and so two
years later our boy Moran Cerf delve
into that and brought his sort of
Rockstar vibe to the world of
neuroscience and it's been amazing
he's read a little worried incredible
career so far before we dive in yeah
we'll talk about that want to make sure
that our live audience is on Facebook
and IG can hear us yes that is the
question and also encourage them to ask
their questions in the live feed so that
we can so we can talk about them we can
respond to them so if you've watched the
episode this is your opportunity to ask
follow-up questions go deeper on after
impact plot yeah and I like that after
impact live and that really is guys
that's our ideal would be that we spend
the time answering the questions that
you guys have the things that you're
interested in so if we could get a
thumbs up there we go okay so people can
hear us fantastic and at some point
maybe we'll convince Lisa and Cindy that
they don't have to be mute and that they
can just speak there we go
all right a little sound out of those
two excellent awesome and just a
reminder to our audience listening on
the podcast which is coming out as day
after the official episode if you want
to engage on after impact live you can
do that we should be doing it every day
of episode launch so again which right
now at Tuesday's that's right
go jump on that episode quick coming out
on the podcast early in the morning
around 6 a.m. so check it out and then
join us for live perfect so and if you
guys are wondering why we do it in that
order and I'm going to I'm going to try
something here this really drives me
nope that's going to end badly know that
limits the reason that we release things
early on the podcast is because right
now guys we really really need your help
we need you to go and rate and review
the episodes on iTunes and if you don't
get down with iTunes go on stitch or our
goal is to hit new and noteworthy and
really build this community we crack the
top 50 podcast business podcasts on
iTunes which we're super super excited
about but is there any spot
other than number one Agent Smith no I
don't think there is so that's our goal
let it be stated and we need your help
obviously we're never going to get there
so we will uphold our end of the bargain
which is to make content that hopefully
is so good that it hurts just a little
and what we need you guys to do is go
rate review and as is always my pitch to
people don't lie just tell the truth if
the content is awesome please tell them
it's awesome if it sucks don't be afraid
to tell them because we need to know ah
yeah for sure
so please guys rate review really really
helps all right all right let's dive in
a little echo what you said earlier this
is one of the best episodes I've ever
been a part of it was so fascinating I
think it's because it was really uh
under everything he said all of the
studies and the ideas that he was
bringing up through his experiences in
neuroscience were underscoring
everything that we talked about on the
show and everything that we talked about
as a company yeah I think so I was real
istening to it and in some ways I sound
like a kid at a new Direction concert or
One Direction Jesus I'm giving my age
way you know I was just so geeked out to
be talking to him and and you're right
he was so on point with the neuroscience
behind why we're doing impact theory and
at one point I even said something like
you know this is like a central thesis
in my life and you know the ability to
escape the matrix and all that and he
said let me say it in neuroscience terms
and then broke it down from you know the
perspective of what's actually happening
neurologically in the brain was is
really fascinating and was one of the
things that made it so electrifying is
he is a guy that and he talks about this
in the episode he's a guy that said I
you know I had already had so much
success as a hacker I had a very
established career but then I spent five
years going after my PhD being told by
everybody that hey if you're going to go
into science just think of all the
things that you're really excited about
from consciousness free will
aliens dreams all of those things that
really really excite you don't do any of
those and that's how you're going to
road your credibility as a
neuroscientist
and then he met Crick and Crick was into
all that stuff and he was chasing all
the things that as a kid he just found
uh Turley fascinating and that gave
Moran the courage to begin chasing some
of that stuff and some of his earliest
work was in imaging dreams which is like
this whole thing that I'm sure we'll get
into later in the episode but the fact
that he's chasing all this stuff that
you know the kid inside of us wants to
learn about wants to take seriously and
that's why I wore this shirt which is a
Batman shirt in honor of my boy because
what he's doing in neuroscience is
really saying okay here are the things
that I find fascinating whether it makes
other people think less of me or not is
totally irrelevant to me I'm willing to
put all of my energy my heart my soul
and the seriousness with which I take
scientific endeavor into things that I
find fascinating and if that happens to
be aliens if it happens to be dreams and
so be it but I will apply scientific
rigor to it and and that's how I feel
obviously about mythology and we've
talked a lot about that and to me batman
superman deadpool whoever it is it's
modern-day mythology and there's so much
of that that we can use for real in our
lives if we're willing to take it
seriously yeah and why is it important
for people to try to try to think in
that way because I think a lot of people
get stuck in their careers or as an
entrepreneur because they they think
they have to follow this certain path
right this this path that is the
traditional way that you have to work up
to something you can't you're not worthy
to go and study time travel yet because
you have a new finish your PhD so you
can't go there right but he did away
with all that and said no if I follow
the things that excite me I'm actually
going to excel more because I'm gonna be
more invested so how do people get into
that that state of mind into the
positive or the negative into the
positive well I think the easiest way to
understand that is is to look at the
negative and say okay how do we end up
there right how do we end up not being
willing to take those risks because it's
it's essentially bravery that allows you
to push beyond that and the reason that
people don't take it seriously or
they're afraid to pursue those things
that that most excite them that ignite
that sort of childlike passion is
because they're unsure and when you have
certainty is intoxicating right and I
talked about that in my book review
of SIL night's shootout where Phil
Knight one of the most powerful quotes
in the book was that belief is is
intoxicating and that what people go for
in a salesperson is to see their own
belief and that what they're buying
isn't a shoe they're buying that guy's
belief in that running is a better thing
and this is a better running shoe and so
when people bulk at really pursuing
something that they're excited about
when other people are telling them that
the crazy is they're afraid they really
are crazy they're afraid that they
really will look stupid they're afraid
that nothing will come of it and it's
our own inability to see past the the
definition or sorry to not be able to
see that we were existing inside this
confines which is somebody else's
definition of who we are right so even
like if you go back and watch in
sidequest episodes I really just dabbled
in wearing my personality on the outside
and you can even see that develop over
time so in the beginning it was much
more sort of fashion-forward it was
really conservative you know sort of
what the fashion community would say
okay yeah that's you not taking a lot of
risks there and then I would start
wearing brightly colored shoes and then
I might hint at like my fascination with
comic books in a shirt or something and
now that I don't have to worry about
being associated to any other brand one
of the edicts and doing impact theory
was this is going to be me turned inside
out right I was going to be completely
not just authentic cuz everything inside
quest was authentic but to be
aggressively yourself because I wasn't
representing a brand here per se I'm
representing myself and building the
brand around that so because now I'm
stepping outside the construct of what
other people are going to think of me or
what a brand needs or whatever you
really can begin to express yourself
because I don't care what people think I
don't care what they're going to say I
don't care what it represents them I see
it as the bat symbol in the sky right I
want to call out to the people who think
like I think and collect those people so
it you know it really does empower you
when you're willing to look beyond that
construct that you're not going to be
defined by wanting other people to see
you a certain way that you really want
to align what you hope people will take
away from you with what you really want
to be
and become and what you're working
towards so you know what Moran is really
shown is that that applies to every
endeavor and whether that's you know I
think that scientific the scientific
community is incredibly political I
think it's incredibly dangerous actually
the way that they go about it in terms
of slowing down scientific progress
because they're so hard on people that
step outside of what's considered you
know known or all the things that we
really understand and Moran gives a
really great example of this in the
episode and he says you know what's
going on in neuroscience right now is
we're having this revolution where we
realize that voice in your head that you
believe is you is but one of many voices
in your head and it's not the most
important it's not even the central
voice in your head and in fact most of
the things that are going on in your
mind that create the decisions that you
make and all of that stuff they're not
the voice that you consider yourself and
he said you know 400 years ago when
Galileo pointed a telescope at the moons
of Jupiter and realized hey wait a
second they're not moving the way but
they're supposed to be and the only way
for me to reconcile what I'm actually
observing is to make the Sun the center
of the solar system and to make Earth
the third planet from the Sun and even
though that was considered you know
heresy and the throne men of all of
mankind he said the math dictated it and
so you know what am I supposed to do
with that and so we had the courage to
do it and to say well this is the sort
of mathematical truth of the situation
and I think Moran has that same ability
to break free of what everybody wants to
believe is true which is that singular
voice that we see as being us is the
only voice and that we're in control of
everything but just like in admitting
that we really are the third Rock from
the Sun and you know that we revolve
around the Sun versus the other way
around that all of a sudden you can
really see what's going on and you can
really begin to explore the cosmos he
said the same thing is going on inside
of us and once we accept that it's one
voice among many we can actually begin
to understand ourselves we can actually
begin to understand our decision-making
process so it's you know it's it's
bravery and a willingness to stand
outside that construct yes super
fascinating I love the he drew that
connection back to Galileo and I'm glad
you brought that up some
wanted to talk about so let's go a
little bit deeper on that so why we
haven't gone deep good Agent Smith is
like going all-in are we going yesterday
why let's let's bring it back to the
individual if you have watching this
show why should that notion about the
multi voice so be empowering instead of
writing them to people wow that's a
really good question and here's why I
think it's an amazing question because
every day is a battle with the multiple
voices in your head and when you
recognize them for what they are which
are separate parts of your brain
offering up evolutionarily advantageous
behaviors and then you can put yourself
in the context of I'm in modern times
and how many of these voices now serve
me and I don't mean voices like in a
schizophrenic way where it actually you
know you hear one voice like 14-year old
girl and another's like a nine year old
man it's not that experience and if that
is your experience you should probably
seek help but you know you get these
really strong feelings in opposing
directions like one minute you feel
strong you feel sturdy secure you know
who you are you know what you're going
after and the next minute you feel weak
and vulnerable and uncertain you're like
what is happening like how can I swing
so dramatically in such a short period
of time and that's what Moran is talking
about when he says that you've got these
different voices or when you put
somebody in machine that's measuring
their brainwaves and you ask them you
know do you want steak or fish is the
example that he uses and they say they
want steak and and then he can reveal
later that he actually influence that
decision even though people are utterly
convinced that it was their own once you
understand the mechanisms that the brain
uses to navigate the world then you can
the voice that you identify as you the
one that's sort of the highest level
cognition that the executive function
will call it like once you understand
all of the things that are working
beneath the surface to influence that
person if you will I used air quotes
just so everyone knows I don't think
it's the humonculon I think is what they
call it but once you realize that that
that person or that voice however you
want to think of it is being
dramatically and persistently influenced
by the subconscious
you can take control of it and you can
run it against a bias filter or whatever
or even just put in mechanisms to
counteract it like one of the things if
I do is if I come across a book an
article whatever the challenge is
something that I believe I force myself
to read it because and read it with an
open mind by the way and not to read it
like oh what are these dumbasses know to
read it and ask myself the question what
if this were true what would that change
would it open opportunity for me so you
know it's it's really understanding that
that that stops you from falling prey
and we're being signaled wildly here I
think we have an audience question all
right question is how would you go about
moving the positive voices in your mind
to the forefront yeah I'm going to
encourage everybody to go research a guy
named Mark Devine at mark Devine he's a
guy that taught me how to meditate he's
a Navy SEALs just a all around badass
dude on it's like what he was an inside
quest great guest great human being
somebody that I've actually run into
since then just out in the world and I
see what he's pursuing and he's a mental
warrior as much as he is a physical
warrior really really good dude and what
he talks about is the courage wolf and
the fear wolf and it's a great metaphor
because you can when it's an animal like
that you can understand that the one
that's fed is the one that grows strong
and so if you feed the fear wolf then
the fear wolf will get more powerful and
if you feed the courage wolf the courage
wolf will get more powerful and to use
Tony Robbins language which is much more
closely tied to a direct way that the
brain actually wires itself which is
through myelin and if you don't know
myelin you're going to want to look it
up and this is a fatty tissue I guess
would be the qualification for it that
the brain wraps around connecting
synapses that I think helps conduct
electricity faster so literally you're
able to think faster and and that's when
people say that they're hardwiring the
brain that's what they mean is you're
you're really making these amazing
connections so Tony Robbins calls it
building a superhighway you're going to
build a superhighway
and you can build a superhighway to
gratitude to fulfillment or you can
build a superhighway to fear and anxiety
and the highway is built simply through
repetition and I really really want
people to listen to that it is simply
through repetition
I think Moran says eight times I mean
that that has to do with marketing and
we can talk about that in a minute but
it's almost certainly following this
exact mechanism and what's happening is
through repetition you're creating this
speedy connections between things so
let's say God the one that everyone
fears public speaking so you think about
public speaking and you just nothing's
coming up for you you don't have any
plans of public speak but you're sitting
there thinking about public speaking and
how embarrassing would be if everyone
laughed at you or like how much it would
suck to fail or like God it would be so
embarrassing if you flub the word or
what if your mind went blank
you're not stressing about it but what
are you reinforcing you're reinforcing a
vision of you up there failing like and
you're going through the thousand
different ways that it would suck if you
failed and I find myself doing that all
the time and I'm like what am i doing
like why'd and ask yourself this
question and I know I'm going to tell
you the answer the answer the question
I'm about to ask is because it makes you
feel like a douche bag okay now the
question is why don't you imagine
yourself crushing it why don't you
imagine the thousand ways that it could
go right why don't you imagine people in
the audience standing up and clapping
and screaming your name and running up
to you crying because they think of you
like the kid from new direction right
one direction god I really knew it was
new direction of band when I was a kid
all right there we go new addition I'm
smashing them all together here so even
now I'm going to replay this in my mind
where I got it right and it was amazing
and people were cheering for me instead
of the fact they've gotten it wrong
twice already so you people don't replay
it going well so they were creating this
neuronal superhighway between speaking
and being embarrassed between speaking
and failing and so that's how it becomes
this just absolutely paralyzing
terrifying thing whereas if they spent
that same amount of time constantly
stopping themselves
doing what Daniel dr. Daniel Amon calls
ants automatic negative thoughts so he
had crushed the ants so you want to
crush the automatic negative thought and
replace it with an automatic positive
thought so that you're constantly
daydreaming about the way things are
going to go well about how they're going
to go right so you're reinforcing that
in your mind and how do you how do you
crush those negative thoughts like what
are some tactics that you can use
literally just stop them so the second
you you write them down you I don't
that's not been a technique I've used
maybe some people have use that to great
effect but my gut instinct is if you're
dwelling on it by writing it down that
you're just reinforcing it and that is
probably better if you're going to write
anything down the moment you think of
something negative write something
positive and so that's what I do when I
recognize that I'm having a negative
thought that I'm rehearsing something
going wrong in my mind I stop and I
force myself to have another audience I
think if you're shaping your audio no
well yeah just the question is are there
ethical concerns around shaping your
identity yeah so I don't know that
there's I'll just say there's no ethical
concerns with shaping your own identity
there may be deep and terrifying ethical
concerns to the actions that emanate
from the identity that you create so you
need to be very careful with that
but there are massive ethical concerns
from shaping somebody else's mentality
and because that is literally what we're
trying to do with impact Theory we are
actually trying to shape people's
mentality and Cindy thinks I should
relate it to free will and so remind me
if I don't bring it around but when when
I think about the what I hold myself to
the standard to make sure that we don't
to some weird ethical gray area is the
same that I hold myself to when I think
about selling the only way I can get
behind selling is if I believe truly
believe that that product somehow makes
that person or the world a better place
and if it does that then I will go hard
to sell it and I will use every
technique I can think of to get people
to believe in to get behind to be
excited about to like the price to
whatever and if you haven't read the
book nudge read it there really even
just small things you can do Moran talks
about one of them $6.99 is very
different than seven dollars so small
things like that to nudge people in a
given direction I think all of its
ethical if at your absolute core you
believe that it's empowering that it
will do good by people and do good by
the world as a whole and I think if
that's your you know the the guiding
principle then the only thing that we
really have to fear is mental illness
and I don't think there's ever a way
around that to bring it back to free
will do I see them being connected not
really I think we're going to have to
address free will there's a separate
thing but that did make me think about
something that I wanted to cover when I
was watching the episode which was
selling getting inside people's minds
I've lost it alright I got a question
left if I will and self narrative which
is a big theme in the interview some
Moran talks about all of these studies
right in which they can predict people's
behaviors and their decisions which sort
of burst the illusion of free will and
then yet I think the rest of the episode
you you both talked about how you're
able to create a self narrative that's
going to determine your decisions and
help you sort of become the person you
want to be so how is this idea of you
know free will not being something that
we possess how is this not devastating
for people and how can we change our
thinking around that it's interesting so
here's how I think about free will and
maybe a little bit different than Moran
thinks about it I think free will is
irrelevant I don't think it matters and
nothing in my life would change whether
I have free will or I don't and if you
carry back the concept of free will far
enough I think you'll see that it can't
possibly exist if you allow me the
butterfly effect right so that doesn't
mean that in any moment I'm not deciding
something so
or myself but the question is what made
me and once you start backtracking right
so I would be very different for
instance if my parents would beat me I'd
be very different for instance if my
parents showed no love and no affection
I would be very different if I didn't
read I would be very different if
thousand different things that occurred
to me right and there's as many
variations on the human growth
experiences as there are people right
every every trajectory to adulthood I
think is entirely unique even identical
twins so if you accept that you are to
some extent and I would say to a very
large extent the result of your
perspective and that your perspective is
shaped oftentimes by things outside of
you if you take that back far enough
then I think that you know free will is
is an illusion and it doesn't matter it
doesn't impact you in any way shape or
form it doesn't matter to me that the
person that I am today is a result of
all the experiences that I've had and
that many many many many of those
experiences were outside of my control I
feel like right now I can decide what
direction I want to be moving in I can
decide whether I want fisher's take I
could change my mind so because I feel
empowered to course-correct and
determine where I want to go I'm not as
worried about what the subconscious
processes are that make me desire one
thing over the other right because even
that I feel like we can take hold of and
you can like when I changing what I
built my self-esteem around felt like I
had recoded the matrix it was so
fundamental to what I valued what I felt
chemically where I wanted to go how I
viewed myself like it was really for any
programmers out there it was kernel
level right you've gone about as deep as
you're going to be able to go and really
make deep deep changes to the code of
the way you think so that was really
really powerful and because I feel that
I have the ability to do that nothing
else matters so whether that's free
willing not too relevant and jumping off
that how do you make those changes I
mean is it about just become
the start with self-awareness or what's
the deep work that you're doing to
really get down to that kernel level and
and recode yourself in the matrix so I
play a game called no what
would it take all right so no
what would it take let's say that you
are you're outside my house right now
and you want to get in no what
would it take
go me yep outside your house and want to
get it yep let's say one of your wife
life depends on you getting in in the
next four minutes Oh
I mean I'm picking the lock I'm breaking
windows you're not starting with the
lock right because you know not a boil
on it if four minutes I'm breaking
windows right you pick something up
smash through the window yeah so
done right no both but if I force you to
deal with the construct of a this in my
house I'm going to get pissed off and by
the way your wife's not in here dying
and you just actually want in what are
you going to do you're going to knock
right in status on my house gonna knock
if I don't ask the door gonna go to
window right you'll check but you're
going to like you're so limited by
social constructs when the answer is
actually really simple and if the stakes
were high enough for you to get in you'd
get in and you get in really fast so for
me to get down to the kernel level is
all about identifying like where is the
no answer right
- I need to make this change so I'll
walk you through what really happened
with me when I finally moved away from
thinking of myself as smart and I
started started thinking of myself as
being a learner was I had a stated goal
to get rich and I wanted to get rich
here I was as an entrepreneur and trying
to work my way up in the company and it
wasn't working
and I was constantly trying to convince
people that my way was the right way
even when I knew that it wasn't the
right way and one day it actually worked
and I convinced people of a bad idea and
I knew that by them agreeing to my way
we were actually gonna move slowly or
more slowly or move in the wrong
direction and so I had like a real
epiphany at that moment cuz I thought oh
my god like you need to really assess
your behavior what you're doing right
now isn't in alignment with your goals
you just work tree
hard to convince people to go in the
wrong direction so what is it that's
actually motivating you like stop
biessing yourself what's really
motivating you and I realized that what
I was being motivated by was a desire to
feel good about myself and that that was
actually the thing that made me want to
be rich as well I thought being rich
would make me feel good about myself and
I was tell you right now it's not going
to and you can be rich and miserable you
can be poor and happy and the two aren't
tied that doesn't mean that money isn't
amazing it is but they just aren't tied
and until you figure that out you're
really really in trouble so I realized
okay I'm acting in accordance with a
desire to feel good about myself okay
well then if that's my primary driver
that sits below everything a desire for
self esteem which I actually think
should be and people should feel good
about themselves then I need to switch
what I build my self-esteem around
because it is a construct and it's built
around something and right now it's
built around the notion of being smart
well let's let go of that because I'm
just not that smart and I'm wrong a lot
so rather than build my self-esteem
around that build it around learning and
that changed everything
that's super powerful I want to bring
him back to Moran and I want to read a
quote from the episode nice so he says
the mistake I made wasn't to say
something is possible when it was not it
was to say something is impossible
before I knew it c-can you just respond
to that quote I mean I know it impacted
you in real time in the episode as it
did everyone watching but how important
is that realization I want everybody
listening to this if you're driving in
your car I want you to pull over and
you're going to I need you to pull over
because Jarrod is going to read this
quote one more time and your life is
going to be changed and if your life
isn't changed you're not listening or
you're dead inside take it away
he says the mistake I made wasn't to say
something as possible when it was not it
was to say something is impossible
before I knew it and I have to tell the
story so for those of you that haven't
watched the episode watch it because I'm
gonna just bastardize his tail and this
is really amazing and this you'll see me
freak out in the episode and I stopped
this where I stop and shake his hand
right because I was just like dude
anybody that can switch on a dime like
that and realize I was wrong and there's
a way more powerful way to think like
you're my kind of person but here's how
it went he had spent five years working
on his PhD and he was obviously in
Oh science looking into the brain what's
possible and he was doing this thing
that sort of hinted at that we might one
day somehow be able to record dreams and
he was just exhausted and he'd finally
put in his thesis and a reporter called
and woke him up and he was you know sort
of in that days that you're in when you
first wake up and they asked him
something along the lines of what he's
working on or whatever and he said that
you know he was working on saying sort
he hinted that you could monitor dreams
and so they said so you're telling me
that you can record dreams and in his
sort of half-asleep state he said yes
and then it went viral
the reporter hung up moran realized his
mistake and realized how it was going to
be interpreted and it just spread like
wildfire it went everywhere and people
were calling him phone ringing off the
hook
saying you know that scientists now
we're saying that we can record dreams
and actually remember reading the
article by the way and thinking whoa
like that's kind of freaky and I was
thinking about how it's going to be used
like the court systems and stuff and and
he tried frantically to backtrack to
tell people no no no that's not what I
meant and he woke me up yeah because
he's like I'm going to lose my
credibility like this isn't possible
there's no way you can do it and he
spends three years trying to convince
people that it is impossible and then a
reporter in fact the first reporter from
the BBC calls them up and says we want
you to comment on recording dreams and
Miranda's like come on man you've got to
be kidding like you guys all but tanked
my reputation like this is crazy I spent
the last three years trying to rebuild
my credibility they said no no we
understand that you don't believe that
it's possible but there's a guy in Japan
doing it right now and I think Moran's
world changed at that moment now he had
two choices he could yell heresy he
could say it's not possible keep you
know double triple down on his stance
that no no no you really can't do this
or if you do what he actually did and he
opened his mind and he went started
working with the guy and realized I made
a critical error and Mike he says in the
quote my critical error wasn't to say
that something was possible that wasn't
it was to believe something is
impossible when I don't know and this
there's an amazing amazing quote and I'm
blanking on who it's by right now but I
see it I remember now it's Michio Kaku
Michio Kaku says he's a famed physicist
Michio Kaku says
I love talking about science fiction
because science fiction plays is
incredibly important role in society and
that role is to capture people's
imaginations and man I cannot tell you
that enough to capture people's
imaginations if you want to know why it
impact theory we are so hell-bent to
create traditional narrative but
traditional narrative that's on the back
of really empowering ideology is because
we want to teach people not only how to
dream but how to turn that science
fiction and it's not all going to be
science fiction but to turn that science
fiction into science fact
and so often it is the the storytellers
that point people in the direction that
tell scientists were to look that really
paint a compelling vision of the future
that people get excited about they get
behind and then they go into the
research and they make it real and one
of the things that I want to do on the
company side of things I want to tell
people what I'm struggling with in my
life because I know there's an
entrepreneur out there right now who's
going to make this a reality and
right like I will tell you right now
there is a huge business opportunity in
anybody that thinks they can deliver on
this I want you to contact me
immediately I'm not going to buy you I'm
going to fund you I'm going to mentor
you something but I'm going to get
involved with anybody that can do ultra
hike ultra high quality you hear me
saying that right I'm not saying better
than what's out there I'm saying
ultra-high quality direct-to-garment
printing if you can do ultra
high-quality direct-to-garment printing
you have a billion dollar business and I
want to talk to you but that's me right
I'm throwing out science fiction right
now it's science fiction it doesn't
exist that looks everywhere for
this but I know out there right now is
somebody they're a dreamer they're an
Oklahoma
nobody knows who they are they're a 14
year old kid and they're going to get
the local university to let them come in
and they're going to transform the
director garment industry why because
they're like the guy in Japan who heard
that scientists were recording dreams
and never heard the retraction and so
now simply because he thinks it's
possible he's going to actually do it
and I'm really glad you brought it back
to entrepreneurship because I think this
is a really important lesson another way
to say what Moran is saying is don't
give up exhaust every single possibility
until you are absolutely certain that
that big dream you have is not possible
and can we go a step further because I
said in the episode Moran
be happy until you tell me that anything
is possible and he he acquiesced
maybe acquiesce light he didn't go too
hard but I you know I think that he got
it the real truth here isn't it isn't
don't give up it's accept that it is
your failing now there's a subtle
difference there what I mean by that is
accept that it is possible know it to
the core of your being your goal isn't
to exhaust your efforts and prove that
it's impossible your goal is to believe
to the core of your being that it is
possible so if you haven't figured it
out yet you don't know some key piece of
information you haven't learned
something and the reason I want people
to be open to that is because they
should be looking for collaborators they
should be looking for people that can
give them that one bit of idea it
doesn't need to be you you don't have to
be the one to come up with it right like
don't pride yourself on that that's such
a fool's errand that's what really blew
me away about Moran was ego did not get
in his way once he realized oh my god
someone is doing it that piece of
knowledge changed his life and it took
him on a new trajectory and he went from
having wasted countless hours trying to
convince people that something was
impossible because he wanted to protect
his ego he wanted to protect his
reputation to going what was I thinking
I want people to dream bigger I'm going
to get I'm going to dream bigger myself
I'm going to get other people to dream
bigger and I'm going to recognize the
transference of the energy between
science fiction and science fact yeah
alright I think I need to repeat the
quote one more time for our Facebook
light immunity for IG they went here and
so one more time the mistake I made
wasn't to say something is possible when
it was not it was to say something is
impossible before I knew it man write
that down write that down done read that
put it on your wall I would say tattoo
it if he had ended it by saying and we
instead realized that anything is
possible but even I like how that one
caveat my belief system where I say
human potential is nearly limitless so
sometimes you throw things in like that
just to keep people from thinking that
you're totally out of your mind
but honestly guys please open yourself
up to being changed that is one of those
parts of my belief system that's been so
impactful
like you have to let that quote change
you you have to reinforce it in your
mind you have to know that before you
heard that quote from a rants or if you
were a different human being like if you
can repeat that in your head and really
think like that and see yourself now has
fundamentally changed and go home and
tell your significant other
hey I heard this quote and it really
changed me and I feel like a different
human being and I'm going to act
differently and tomorrow actually get up
and act differently and act in
accordance with that quote you will be
amazed at how much it actually impacts
your life like this stuff works but you
have to do it you have to really be
willing to change that is the truth
alright let's talk about storytelling
words that is a big theme of this
episode obviously it is relevant to
Moran as well because he can focus on a
lot of TV shows and films he discusses
storytelling you know we can we can
reshape our past we can tell ourselves
stories about our memories we can change
our memories and that's going to then
change our identities but I want to
bring storytelling also to you know how
he talked about science fiction how he
talks about art and film and television
and and back to really the sort of the
mission of impact theory because he
actually says this I think is a good
jumping-off point he says that when you
are watching it film your brain starts
to wire or it starts to act in the way
that the person on screen in accordance
with that person on screen and then he
even says that it goes back to the
director of the creator of the film and
how their brain was working so how does
that tie into the mission of the impact
theory of what we're trying to do with
art and media to empower people yeah
this is one of my favorite quotes and it
stopped me dead in my tracks and I don't
know who first said it and I'd love
somebody drop into the comments if they
know who first said it we're looking for
the originator here you're the average
of the five people you spend the most
time with and that was one of those
truths that hit me from on an
intuitional level right just at a gut
level I thought that is so true and when
I think about how different my life is
now versus when the five people that I
was hanging out with we're different
it really is astonishing now you could
say that it's correlation not causation
until you start seeing the neuroscience
of what you're just talking about and
you realize that when two human beings
are vibing and I know you guys have felt
this you've been in a talk where you
just felt like time dilated
you were there everything slowed down
you were like in the zone with the
person right totally and in fact this is
why one of the reasons so the reason
people take substances alcohol drugs
whatever is to manipulate their brain
chemistry right and there's there is
something really fascinating about
humans absolute obsession with
manipulating their brain chemistry but
so I rarely drink and the only times
that I enjoy drinking or when I'm with
my wife and if I really really want to
enjoy drinking it would be just my wife
and I alone why because we get in
lockstep neurologically and we're like
in a zone and I feel like there is
nothing in the world except that woman
and we're so like in sync and it's that
feeling of being in sync that Moran is
talking about where you are
neurologically firing in the same
pattern as a person you're talking to
you feel understood you feel heard you
hear them you understand them like you
were totally in sync which is of course
why they say that because that's exactly
what it feels like and in being in sync
like that you really begin to soak up
their vibe and if their vibe is
empowering you'll be empowered to
survive as negative you'll be sucked
down so you really have to be careful
about who you get in sync with but to
your point about wide impact Theory were
so hell-bent to bring a new kind of
narrative to the table that's built on a
new kind of ideology is because of what
Moran was saying that as somebody
sitting there watching it they're going
to be in sync with that ideology they're
going to be in sync with the person on
screen they're going to be in sync with
us behind the camera and as long as from
an ethical standpoint we're building it
around an ideology that's empowering to
them and empowering to the world now
it's like I can go hard for that I can
go hard to get people involved in that
to put every bit of my energy and
enthusiasm into bringing this art into
existence and turning it into plush toys
and t-shirts and all the things we want
to do to reinforce an ideology to get
you in sync to help you stay in sync to
you know one of the things that I really
want people to start doing and this is
going to be one of the huge revenue
drivers for us is to rep what you
believe right and you're going to see me
all the time all the time all the time
I'm where
bring things that express what I believe
and that's going to be our first wave of
revenue is we want to bring into the
world things that represent a certain
ideology that's empowering right now
today as I'm wearing the shirt when I
look in the mirror I'm not just looking
back many Batman's looking back to me
right and there's this whole mean going
around like hey always be yourself
unless you can be Batman then always
weed Batman right but people laugh it
off but like what if you took it
seriously what if you really said okay
what does that mean like okay I don't
have any superpower something I have to
work super hard I want to you know bring
light to the darkness
Batman is an idea another person like
all this amazing stuff that's tied up in
the mythology of Batman what if I really
brought that to my daily life which I do
by the way and is one of the ways that I
show up in the gym five days a week and
I put that work in is because I
want to see that staring back at me I
don't want to be embarrassed when you
know Bruce Wayne's or Batman's eyes are
staring back at me and when you can as a
grown-ass man who is you know successful
and is trying to play at the absolute
highest level if you can take that
seriously and really let it inform you
and drive you I really think you have a
leg up so that's that ability to read
that stuff as serious and know how to
put it to use in your life is is is what
impact theory is like that's our random
debt that's high school French coming in
and come in there handy they're nice
Cindy Jim Rohn alright Jim Rohn Sam man
he was he's og so thank you yeah so how
do you choose your tribe of five people
and how do you remove people from that
tribe without being a jerk
yeah so that's a multi-layered question
so let's start with how do you remove
people without looking like a jerk so
first let go of worrying about whether
you look like a jerk because to the
person you remove I promise you're going
to seem the dick there's no two ways
about that yep and and don't lose sleep
over it now I believe people should be
respectful at all times I think you
should fill yourself with joy in your
heart and I know
I'm stupid but I actually tried to do
that I try to film myself the joy with
love for that person and to want good
things for them and look there have been
people that have done me wrong in my
life
rewind everything I've ever said
publicly and look how often I and
moan I don't I and moan about
myself because I'm trying to push myself
and hold myself to a higher standard but
even people who've attacked me or
whatever like I get it you know what I
mean I see I try to see from their
perspective I try to still want good
things for them and I do that because I
want to focus on negative right
like I don't want to focus on the anger
or the hatred and it doesn't mean that I
don't feel it right and you know I think
I've talked pretty openly about you have
to know how to leverage the anger you
have to know how to leverage a chip on
your shoulder yes and know how to do
that stuff but you have to be really
careful and I find that people fill
their hearts with that they fill their
hearts with rage they fill their hearts
with wanting to tear people down and and
while it's leverageable I never fill my
heart with it you have to be super
careful about that so want good
things for the person that you're
removing from your life don't be a jerk
wish them well wish them nothing but the
best if they're open and they seek ideas
for how they can improve obviously offer
it willingly how you pick the five
people that are going to you know that
you want to be around I'll say pick it
from an ideological standpoint like who
you trying to become and find the people
that are closest to that so you know if
you're trying to be a world-class
athlete surround yourself with
world-class athletes or the closer you
can get to it if you're trying to be a
world-class businessman same thing if
you're trying to be the best mom ever
like surround yourself with either
people that you know or you know maybe
teachers that have really shown
themselves you know to really really
deliver results for kids whatever it is
that you think is valuable to run
yourself with that and then as Moran
says when you can't actually get those
people in your circle then turn to
articles turn to books turn to movies
turn to podcast like there are so many
people out there right now pouring their
heart and soul into creating just
amazing amazing content and you know and
I'll give a couple shoutouts here Tim
Ferriss every time I listen to his
podcast I'm just like Tim good lord
like the people that he has on in the
way
that he really goes into the how to like
hyper execution airy and I'm not sure
that's word by the way but I'm going to
stay with it
I just I'm blown away and think it's
amazing lewis howes like super emotional
raw vulnerable right really really
inviting people into his journey hearted
charm like there's just so so many
amazing podcast and then heckle Noah
Kagan heckle Noah Kagan he's just
starting his podcast I think it's going
to be amazing and I think that he has a
unique entrepreneurial mind and and you
know letting those people be you're over
the years mentor you know the Internet's
changed everything take advantage
awesome let's talk about the future of
brain science let's talk about in the
episode of Moran talks about how they're
actually doing studies where they can
identify the sections of the brain that
are deteriorating through any sort of
brain illness or disorder and they're
trying to plug in where they're actually
doing it right they're plugging in
microchips that can replicate that
process in the brain and help people
live longer better lives question is
would you do it if you could if you
needed to and you could would you do it
yeah I mean there's no question so first
of all I'm gonna be a cyborg let's all
just embrace the out of that so
yeah I have no overly indulgent affinity
for this meat suit as Peter Diamandis
calls it I I am yeah I am a total
embrace or of Technology of you know I
consider myself a futurist and
absolutely obsessed was going on what's
going on with the XPrize and all of the
cool technologies that they're trying to
help bring to the forefront so I would
do it in a heartbeat and and I just want
to express my eternal gratitude to the
scientists that are out there as a
scientist you know all you're ever going
to contribute is one brick right and
that at the end of the day an edifice is
made up of thousands hundreds of
thousands of bricks and that what you're
going to contribute is one and it may be
a keystone right it may be something off
which everything else hangs but at the
end of the day everyone gets to place
one brick and to give your life to that
one brick is such a noble and beautiful
endeavor that all of us have
taking advantage of from the people that
created these microphones to the
internet to the cameras to the
headphones to the the warmth in my house
you know to engineering it's like we are
literally standing on the shoulders of
giants and so I am just eternally
eternally grateful so anybody out there
that's working on neuroscience right now
that's trying to move us towards the
singularity that's trying to get us to a
point where we can transcend biology I
am eternally in your debt
and yes I'm well aware that we have to
be careful and yes I'm well aware that
things could take a left turn and go
horribly horribly awry but to me
technology is hope and that at the end
of the day is what it it always has been
and what it always will be you're never
going to be able to stop hope people are
always going to try always going to want
to try and make our world more
optimistic more beautiful and and I
trust that you know with enough human
minds around protecting ourselves from
the downside that we will get there and
it will be amazing so yes I will be
implanting chips I won't be an early
adopter I'll be very you know flow to
make sure the best stuff is tried and
true but I'm glad it's happening school
Cindy do we have any more questions from
the community yeah so do we see impact
theory is having the same kind of effect
as actually spending time the five
people I'm I'm going to say it's more
it's more impactful but it's going to
require more effort because now it's not
about osmosis or spending time around
people's what Moran Cerf called osmosis
you're going to just get in sync with
them neurologically from being around
them and it really will happen by
accident
you know when you're spending time
around other people to think like you
think and they have an empowering
mindset like it's just reinforcements
amazing like when I think about everyone
here right it was one of the things we
hired for we're looking for teammates
that that all have that empowering
belief system so when one of us slips
the other people are there so we'll call
that the by default effect that is truly
truly powerful
from it really being five people but the
one thing that those five people can't
give you is a constant stream of newness
new ideas you're you're limited by the
timespan of those five people whereas if
you identify aggregators content
producers out there that are really
going hard for that cake whatever it is
you're trying to do whatever your
passion is my dad's passionate about
cars right so if you're trying to get
better at building classic cars awesome
man there's so many people out there
putting out amazing content you can
drink deeply from that I really think
that and the reason that we've founded
impact theory is were going through this
amazing age right now which is the age
of the entrepreneur and it's people not
all of them are actually going to be
successful entrepreneurs I don't care
about that you're going to hear me keep
saying that and I just want to take some
of the coolness of that word and give it
to as many people as I can so that they
can be stoked to learn and grow which is
at the end of the day what I think it's
all about and that's what you know the
entrepreneurial movement to me is about
self determinism maybe more than
anything that's why people want to be
their own boss and wants them telling
them what to do and then I think it's a
willingness to look at metrics and say
I'm either doing the right thing or I'm
not and you put those two things
together and it doesn't have to be aimed
at a company can be aimed at being a
better teacher it can be aimed at being
a better parent you know whatever a
better student you know so that's a
that's my take we have one more
questions in the community good question
yes this is from Facebook live all right
when we realize Tom that you wanted to
start impact Theory did you make an
actual list of actionable steps you need
to take to get it off the ground all
right so I'm going to do something super
indulgent that's more for the live crowd
than is for the people listening later
but I want right now everybody in the
live stream I want you to type one of
two words yes or no and Cindy's going to
give us a tally so do you think I made
an actual list that I actually write
down actionable items to get impact
Theory off the ground just type yes or
no
we're gonna do a quick poll here and do
a quick Pilates right and just remind
everyone that on the podcast you're more
than welcome to join our live audience
which is going to launch every day that
the episode launches so yeah I was gonna
say you keep saying that all mysterious
every Tuesday we launched a new about
you holding out on me and keep that up
changing it I don't know
all right you can't Agent Smith has
always got something up the sleeve here
all right what do we have Cindy so that
means that we it's a mix it's a mixed
bag people aren't sure people aren't
sure agents man I have my answer I
wanted 14 yeses and one no okay that was
a lot of counting from one now what's
your answer you think yes Cindy what do
you think
okay so Cindy women no so we have like
16 17 yeses and two knows so I'm
absolutely terrified that Cindy doesn't
think that I made a list so if there's
one thing I want to be abundantly clear
write your down it isn't real until
you write it down it just isn't real
till you write it down like if it's just
floating you head do you know how much I
write down I write down everything like
and I have a literally an entire
document just called insights I have a
document awesome quotes I have a
document for a podcast that I want to do
I have a document for blog posts that I
want to do I have my core belief system
that I wrote down which we need to put
back up on impact theory we have an
inside quest you know like literally I'm
trying to write down everything so that
it's there and maybe that's the
advantage of having a terrible memory
but in and by the way somebody needs to
call me on the fact that I reinforce
that belief because it's really stupid I
do need to stop saying and the reason
that I don't stop saying and this is
where I'm conflicted is I want other
people to know I have a bad memory so if
you're like impressed with my memory
then know that you could crush it
because chances are you starting from
way farther ahead than I am so I write
down everything absolutely have a list
had it before we started and have it and
check it daily for those of you to pay
attention to my morning routine the
first thing I do after I finish the
workout meditate think at 8:00
read all that is I go through my list of
important things and that just keeps you
in check I take notes on it where I'm at
what I need to do next
obsessive about it yeah I'm big on lists
too and I just want to recommend a sauna
which is a great web app and also a
noble app for list making and it's not
paid to say that I'm not it's all team
collaboration and project management - I
all the time it's really handy and one
thing I'll throw it right now while I
reserve the right to change tactics at
anytime at this point we don't take any
advertising dollars we don't take any
sponsorships nothing so when we
recommend something because we really
believe in it so you can trust you know
that yeah that's it if we get behind
something you see me pimp in a pair of
shoes or something just because I dig it
and yeah we are and we're pure for Niro
that's right
anything else we want to discuss about
this episode Tom there's anything you
wanted to touch on we didn't get you now
man I think I think we we banged it out
of the park in terms of touching on the
amazing things that Moran said and I
just want to point everybody back to him
and and what he delivered in this
episode was just amazing and it was one
of those ones in real time I said I got
to get you back we have to be doing a
second episode I think Moran and I are
going to be working close together I'm
going to be going out to the Kellogg
School of Management speaking to his
students want to get him more involved
in what we're doing I think he could
really help on the narrative side making
introductions to some key players and
you know and and that's something by the
way that I really want everybody
listening especially if you're
entrepreneurial minded always be making
moves right you should always have
something in the pipeline lines in the
water a Strahan calls it you need to
throw lines in the water you need to be
pushing things forward and you know
having the courage to say to Moran have
really hit it off do you think you're
amazing what can we do together and you
know ask him for introductions and and
trying to make things happen and we're
trying to put some together right now
where he mentions in the episode I'm
wearing I think it was a as a brainwave
monitor I forget what it's called and I
should know this and they then track
like fulfillment and things
self-reported then they match it back
against the actual brainwave patterns
that they saw and so I'm trying to get
him to do that with me which would be
really really amazing and you document
the whole thing that'd be really great
and shout out to one Elizabeth bill you
for that idea which i think is brilliant
so yeah really guys go watch him this
episode was killer agreed yeah so here's
where we are
impact theory was born to really go
beyond what we were able to do it inside
quest because inside quest is rightly so
it's tied to the brand and the brand
only has so much flexibility to become
you know more than its products and that
was something that I really wanted to do
with impact theory was be able to start
with a clean slate not be married to a
brand that was going to be anything
other than a reflection of the ideology
that we were trying to put into the
world and as I play the game no
what would it take and this is a game
that with this particular ideology I've
been playing for a very long time and
for those of you that have heard me talk
about Sousa Comics and my vision for
that back which I was not involved in
Sousa comics but it gave me an answer to
whether the vision that had been
percolating in my mind about finding
undiscovered creators who are out there
creating mythology ideology turning it
into consumable entertainment but
finding ideas that really empowered and
help people become a better version of
themselves and you know I first started
looking this probably more than ten
years ago that it could really become
something and so that's what I tea is
about it's we want to be a multi-billion
dollar brand we are trying to become a
very large company this is not a
non-profit we have a multi staged
approach to revenue generation and and
what we're trying to do with our mission
which is to pull people out of the
matrix you can read more about it on
impact Theory calm the reason that we're
telling people exactly what we're trying
to do is really twofold one because who
knows how you might be able to help and
we want you guys to know what we're all
about and then to I'm not worried at all
about giving away all of our secrets
because if somebody can execute me then
they deserve the prize
and all I even execution execution is
everything so we've got a lot of stuff
going on I'll gladly tell people exactly
what it is and if you can pull it off
better than us then hey kudos to you
so yeah that's what impact theory is all
about all right cool
well thank you everybody so much for
joining us for another episode of after
impact we're going to be doing this
every week this is us going deeper on
the topics and people that are discussed
in the episodes of impact theory if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
rate and review us on iTunes and
stitcher it means the world remember
we're in phase 1 still this is all about
community building we're trying to make
this community massive so if this stuff
delivers value to your life please share
it all right from myself Tom bill you
and agent Smith thank you so much for
joining us and send Cindy sends a piece
out as well
alright guys until next time be
legendary later